beaker tongs
Used to pick hot beakers
analytical balance
Used measure the mass of substances to +/-0.0001 precision.
beral pipette
Transfers small amounts of liquid form one place to another
Bunsen burner
Gas burner that produce intense blue flame used to catalyze chemical reactions, melt solids, or heat up liquids
Buret and buret clamp
Graduated glass/plastic instrument with a stopcock on the bottom. Used to dispense know amounts of liquid reagent with high precision.
crucible and lid
A container for high temperature heating.
crucible tongs
Used to pick up hot crucibles
electronic balance
Measure mass of substances and equipment. Lower precision than an analytical balance
erlenmeyer flask
Used to hold substances that may splatter when heated or may require a cork
evaporating dish
Holds small amounts of chemicals. It can be used to recover dissolved solids by evaporation.
funnel
used with filter paper to remove solid particles from solutions (liquids) or transfer liquids
glass stir rod
Used to stir chemicals that are highly reactive
scoopula
Also called spatula transfers powdered solids from one place to another
beaker
hold liquids and solids. Often used as reaction container
clay triangle
Used to support round bottom dishes when they are heated over a bunsen burner
plastic stir rod
Used to stir chemicals
graduated cylinder
Measures volume
graduated pipette
measure volume more accurate than graduated cylinder
hot plate with stirrer
Used to heat and stir substance at the same time or can be used for one of its functions
ring stand and iron ring
Both provide support for lab activities such as heating, titrating, etc
spot or well plate
Used to observe multiple microscale reactions
test tube
Used to test small amounts of chemicals for various reactions or observations
test tube brushes
Used to clean cylinder shaped lab equiment
test tube holder
Used to hold test tube especially when heating
utility clamp
Used help hold or provide support for various lab equipment. Must be attached to a ring stand.
volumetric flask
Used to make up solutions of fixed volume with high precision and it is only calibrated for a single volume.
volumetric pipette
Used to collect or administer a single volume. It is very precise.
wash bottle
like a soap dispenser for chemicals in the lab - squeeze it to release a controlled stream of liquid for rinsing or cleaning glassware.
watch glasses
Washing solids out of a container or off a stirring rod when filtering. (decanting)
wire gauze
Used to support glassware when placed across a support ring
test tube rack
Used to keep testubes upright and usually has long pegs that will allow test tubes to dry upside down
goggles
Used for eye protection for the entire duration of the lab
mortar and pestle
Grind and mix solids